# Delivery-Route-Optimization-Using-Dijkstra-s-Algorithm
In general, the application of the Dijkstra algorithm is optimization in the problems of computer networks, communication networks, and transport networks. Theoretically, the Dijkstra algorithm is an algorithm used in determining routes in networks with minimum weight. This weight is the travel time, mileage, or cost needed during the trip through a route. This algorithm was found by Edsger W. Dijkstra in 1956 (Ahmed, Ahmed, and Ahmed 2017). Thus, the Dijkstra algorithm can be used for the application of graph theory in the determination of the shortest route in the network of the package delivery service companies. The shortest route is generated by running the Dijkstra algorithm on the initial model graph, starting from the starting point to all other points and returning again to the starting point. Thus, this shortest route is a closed route traversed by a courier from a package delivery service company in a trip. The graphs used in this study are simple and finite graphs. A graph that is connected and its edges have a weight is called a connected weighted graph. This initial model graph is a connected weighted graph, where the weight is the mileage. We call a point in a graph a vertex. So, the starting point is the starting vertex. The shortest closed route generated from this algorithm can be either a cycle or a circuit. A cycle is a closed route that visits a vertex once, otherwise it is a circuit. For example, 𝐶1 = (2, 3, 4, 2) is a cycle, but 𝐶2 = (1, 2, 3, 4, 2, 3, 5, 1) is a circuit in a graph, where {1, 2, 3, 4, 5} is a vertex set of this graph (Chartrand, Lesniak, and Zhang 2016).
Optimal distribution management capabilities will have a major impact on all aspects, especially for freight package delivery service companies. Recently, there have been several studies related to delivery service optimization, namely the problem of routing vehicles with drones for delivery services using ant colony optimization algorithms (Huang et al. 2022), integrating clustering methodologies and routing optimization algorithms for last-mile parcel delivery (Ramírez-Villamil et al. 2022), multi-objective optimization of bicycle routes for last- mile package delivery with drop-off (Osaba et al. 2018), synchronized truck and drone routing in package delivery logistics (Das et al. 2020), and a multi-objective optimization approach to package delivery by the crowd of occupied taxis (Zhou et al. 2022).
Optimization can also use Prim algorithm to design autonomous drone controls in packet delivery (Wirabudi, Hafiza, and Fachrurrozi 2022) and determine the shortest or fastest path in logistics distribution (Lusiani, Sartika, Habinuddin, et al. 2021). The Prim algorithm can be compared to the Floyd-Warsall algorithm in optimization to determine the shortest path (Ramadhan, Siahaan, and Mesran 2018). Using a methodology based on the Prim Algorithm, we can improve the reliability index using artificial immune system techniques by applying graph theory considerations to improve computational performance and Pareto's rule of dominance (Alonso, Oliveira, and De Souza 2014).
As an application in graph theory, a study has been conducted by Ginting et al. in 2019 on delivery simulation using the Dijkstra algorithm to solve the problem of traveling salesmen (Ginting, Osmond, and Aditsania 2019). The application of graphs as models to a problem is not only in determining the shortest path and the fastest path. A graph is also used as a model on traffic congestion problems, in this article, we will determine the shortest route for delivery service by PosLaju Malaysia in Kuala Lumpur using Dijkstra algorithm.
